Dear Blue Heart Community,

It’s that time of year again — where the end of the year is in sight, and many people and organizations look to giving. We welcome this spirit of generosity, and are here to help people do it mindfully. We’re excited to share with you our 2024 Grassroots Giving Guide! Each year, Blue Heart produces and releases this guide to elevate the work of under-funded, grassroots organizations who are boldly building power and creating effective social change across the United States. This is one time of year where we research and highlight groups outside of our usual giving regions of the Bay Area and Salish Sea.

What can you do NOW: 
Look through the guide, donate directly to groups that speak to you, and fill out this form so we can track the guide’s collective impact.

Share the guide far and wide! You will be giving people a gift, as many in your communities may be feeling stuck in the moment, looking for an opportunity to be of service. 
Share on FB, Insta, LinkedIn, or simply forward this email with your own personal flair and encouragement. Share the link and feel free to use these graphics here.
Consider amplifying your impact by inviting people to match your donations!

Why this Guide: 
During the end-of-year giving season, the non-profits that tend to receive the most donations are those that have big PR budgets to shout their message from the rooftops (and in your inbox).

But there are many organizations that have less visibility, yet are doing transformational work to help BIPOC, gender-marginalized, queer, disabled, and low-income people survive and thrive.

We’ve received nominations of trusted and respected organizations, done the research to vet them, and compiled this nifty guide! 

A Note on This Moment:
It’s been a big season with the election and now the impending changes that are causing many to feel a range of emotions from grief, to confusion, to numbness, and some feeling more committed than ever to work for justice. Many organizations that Blue Heart partners with are at risk of losing funding, some even potentially affected by this disturbing bill. 

This moment gives us a mandate to continue trust-based philanthropy and collective organizing to build even more resilient communities. We must get closer to one another and build trust, rather than further isolate ourselves. We recommend this podcast on “Choosing Democracy Today and Everyday” for inspiration and guidance. 

Once again, we invite you to support these visionary organizations who are creating change from the bottom up.

With love and gratitude, 
The Blue Heart Team

P.S. Looking for a thoughtful holiday gift for someone? You can give a Blue Heart membership!

END OF NEWSLETTER

Greetings, dear Blue Heart Community! 

This is our final newsletter for the year, and you likely won’t hear from us on this platform for a few months due to taking a deep rest (which we wish for you all as well), and our new organizational director Eva Orbuch being on maternity leave. While we won’t be sending out grants for the first few months of 2025, your donations will continue to be processed as usual, and rest assured that all dollars will be allocated to high impact work once we resume in our new structure of Giving Collectives. Since the election, we’ve heard the desire from many for deeper, more meaningful levels of giving and community building, so we invite you to consider stepping up your engagement through joining a Blue Heart Giving Collective. 

In the meantime, here’s how you can be in touch if needed:
For inquiries about your donations, please contact our fiscal sponsor: socialgood@socialgoodfund.org. 
For general Blue Heart inquiries and the Salish Sea Giving Collective, please contact Wilder Walker: wilder@blueheartaction.org. 
For inquiries about the Bay Area Giving Collective, please contact Anna Biddle: anna.t.biddle@gmail.com. 
If you’re in the Bay Area, you can always connect with the community through our Whatsapp Group. 
December Grants in the Bay Area and Salish Sea: 
If you’re a Bay Area Blue Heart member, your funds this month went to supporting Bay Area Girls Club, whose mission is to uplift girls ages 5-18 to be game changers for the future through programming that develops life skills, encourages curiosity and discourse, and fosters community. They are a wonderful organization who was nominated by a previous grantee. Amidst our organizational transitions this month we didn’t have capacity to produce a podcast interview with their team, but this will hopefully be coming in the new year. 

If you’re a Salish Sea member, your funds this quarter went to supporting the following organizations. 
Alphabet Alliance of Color 
Green Light Project
Lifewerq Project 

2024 Creator’s Fund! 
Each year, Blue Heart partners with grassroots organizations and channels unrestricted funding to support their frontline work.
Once a year, we invite partner organizations we’ve granted in the past year to submit a short proposal describing a collaborative project with an artist that would communicate and support their movement-building work. 
With the 10% of monthly membership donations that go into The Creator’s Fund, Blue Heart is able to give 2-4 small grants per year ($1,000-$2,000) to our partner organizations and artists.
This year’s Creators Fund Grants are going to the following incredible organizations and projects…
Interfaith Movement for Human Integrity 
IM4HI will use their Blue Heart grant to work with local Bay Area artist David Solnit to develop powerful visuals, co-designed with directly impacted people, to be utilized in rallies and creative actions in the face of threatened mass deportations. They rallied in Sacramento several weeks ago, and it is clear that Governor Newsom and California legislators need pressure to develop a plan for the potential of mass deportation.  

Rich City Rides will use their Blue Heart grant to create a climate-focused comic book addressing park inequity in Richmond, California. This project will use comic-style visuals to highlight challenges like neglect and pollution while celebrating local heroes working to create safe, equitable parks. Through storytelling and art, they aim to inspire meaningful conversations and collective action toward park equity.

Disability Justice Culture Club will use their Blue Heart grant to create the Justice Community Story Quilt, a project that will weave together the art, dreams, experiences, stories, and ancestors of our diverse disability communities. It will be co-created as part of a monthly drop-in social/art space on the first Wednesday of each month from 5-8 pm as a drop in space at Ed Roberts Campus ( 3075 Adeline St, Berkeley CA). 

2024 Grassroots Giving Guide! 

Each year, Blue Heart produces and releases this guide to elevate the work of the under-funded, grassroots organizations who are boldly building power and creating effective social change across the United States. This is one time of year where we research and highlight groups outside of our usual giving regions of the Bay Area and Salish Sea. 

What can you do NOW: 
Look through the guide, donate directly to groups that speak to you, and fill out this form so we can track the guide’s collective impact.

Share the guide far and wide! You will be giving people a gift, as many in your communities may be feeling stuck in the moment, looking for an opportunity to be of service. 
Share on Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, or simply forward this email with your own personal flair and encouragement. 
Consider amplifying your impact by inviting people to match your donations!

Community Events: 

December 15: A Blue Heart member and longtime volunteer shared about a friend’s fundraiser for a local arts nonprofit she works for called Zoo Labs.  Feel free to use promo code FRIEND50 for 50% off. 


January 16: Former Blue Heart grantee Anti Police-Terror Project invites us to join them for an evening of powerful movement music, drinks, food, highlights of their current work, and a look ahead to what’s next for APTP as part of interconnected movements for justice and the world Dr. King dreamed of! 
Love Is Our Armor: A Music-Filled Fundraiser for the Anti Police-Terror Project

With love and gratitude, 

The Blue Heart Team

P.S. Looking for a thoughtful holiday gift for someone? You can give a Blue Heart membership!

END OF NEWSLETTER

We’re excited to welcome Blue Heart’s new leadership! A huge thank you to Viry Romero for her leadership and for stewarding Blue Heart’s work this past year. She’ll continue to support our work and be part of our volunteer team. 

We’re excited to build on our 2022’s progress and work collectively to grow Blue Heart’s membership and support to grassroots organizations with the addition of our two newest Blue Heart staff. We’re thrilled to have Amanuel Gebre and Lux Gypsum lead our Blue Heart work! Learn more about them below.

Amanuel (he/him) is our Program Director leading our Blue Heart growth, programming, membership engagement, and volunteer team. Amanuel is an Ethiopian immigrant, son, brother, inquisitive strategist, and tenacious advocate. Raised in the Bay Area, his lived experiences have deepened his foundation and passion for championing innovative approaches and transformational opportunities for resource-denied communities. Amanuel has worked with local Bay Area organizations such as the Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, First Graduate, En2action, and, most recently, the YWCA East Bay to reimagine initiatives that operate at the intersections of community and economic development. Amanuel has co-created several initiatives that have had a significant impact across communities, such as the Healthy Corner Store Coalition's first local food resource asset map, En2action's workforce programs for communities of color, and a comprehensive cultural preservation report of San Francisco's Bayview Hunters Point, a historically Black neighborhood, conducted by the San Francisco African American Arts and Cultural District. Amanuel is a big reader who gets lost in bookstores but never manages to finish reading any one of the books he collects.


Lux (they/them) is our Program Manager, spearheading our growth and community in the Pacific Northwest - now known as our Salish Sea chapter. Lux (they/them) is queer, non-binary community-builder and culture-shifter offering their gifts at the intersection of interpersonal and cultural transformation. As someone who cares deeply about collective liberation, Lux is excited to offer their skill and drive to support movement-building organizations in their community in this new role. They also express their passion for social change through their business Healing Rising where they work as a mediator, educator, coach, facilitator, and consultant with a focus on conflict, consent and communication. When Lux isn't grappling with large world issues on a fractal scale, they are likely cooking up a storm in the kitchen, on a hike in the woods, chilling with their cat Bambi, dancing ecstatically, cultivating queer community, or singing with their social-justice-centered Song Group, The People's Echo.


January Partner: Creating Freedom Movements

This month Blue Heart members are supporting Creating Freedom Movements (CFM). Founded in 2017 CFM conducts an 18 month program for visionary grassroots leaders to grow community, deepen cross-issue solidarity, and support them to sustain long term. They center those most impacted by multiple oppressions and provide leaders with the resources to help the sustainability and power of their work. Their efforts aim to strengthen the activist ecosystem, networks, and collaborations needed to grow collective power and build the cross-issue solidarity that is needed for deep societal transformation.

The program brings together social movement history, oppressive and exploitative system analysis, cultivating healing practices to help grassroots leaders stay grounded and connected to the work, the role of art in social change, and helps develop practical skills that will help leaders build alternatives to oppressive institutions. Participants also work on justice and joy projects in their communities. The program is facilitated by a team of activists, artists, educators, and healers.

To learn more about how Creating Freedom Movements and their efforts to create more justice and joy, check out our conversation with Nicole Valentino, who leads their culture and relations. 

Resources
The CFM team has spent time learning about Disability Justice. To honor what they’ve been learning, they created this Disability Justice Resource Directory with tools, resources, and best practices to keep the movement going- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qkhYKLmNSulh1xyPBVxmgIMmM15MCFtrNH2Pqint5SY/edit 

The CFM team created a Reproductive Justice Resource toolkit - https://docs.google.com/document/d/173uXQMdG6xuVt8rRQc3f-1hwTMjiMVEl6xvP9KbTUhY/edit 

Box: 2022 Giving Guide - Update
The Blue Heart community donated $37,000 to grassroots organizations through our annual 2022 Grassroots Giving Guide! Our Grassroots Giving Guide elevates the work of under-funded, grassroots organizations who are boldly building the power across the U.S. We’re excited to join forces with YOU to support the movement work of grassroots organizations.

Box: Do you have an Employee Match?
Your Blue Heart monthly contributions qualify for corporate employee matching programs. Submit your corporate match forms and double your impact to Blue Heart. Need help? Reach out viry@blueheartaction.org with any questions.
 

 END OF NEWSLETTER



`;



